---
title: My GSoC application
tags: Programming OpenSource Exchange
---

<h1 align="center">
The journey behind my proposal
</h1>

<h2 id="convex">Convex Optimization</h2>

Today I just finished my last exam for this semester. It was on Convex Optimization, my favorite class of my undergraduate experience (so far!).

I decided it was a good time to share with you a brief story about my growing interests in Optimization and CVXPY which culminated into an accepted proposal for Google Summer of Code.

The Convex Optimization class at University of Manchester was taught by Professor [Matthew Thorpe](https://www.matthewthorpe.co.uk/home). I chose this class because the Math Minor at Concordia required a similar class on Optimization. 

Little did I know, I was in for quite a ride.

The teacher provided preliminary material to help us prepare for the course. Upon reading it over, I instantly thought about dropping the class, there was atleast half of that content I had little to no familiarity with.

But I stuck with it... I read the notes over and over, then I discovered Stephen Boyd's [amazing lectures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=McLq1hEq3UY&list=PL3940DD956CDF0622) online which inspired me to keep learning.

I went to the live lectures, didn't understand a single thing, then watched the pre-recorded lectures, also didn't understand much, then I went to the revision session and we were given weekly problem sheets, I couldn't do them by myself, I ended up memorizing the solutions and regurgitating them later.

But during this process, I looked at the non-examinable portion of the course and found something I really enjoyed. 

Practical implementations of topics in Python Code, using a modeling language called CVXPY.

<h2 id="cvxpy">Joining CVXPY</h2>



<h2 id="reach">Reaching out</h2>



<h2 id="mimuc presentation">Presentation at MIMUC</h2>



<h2 id="deadline">GSoC Application Deadline</h2>